
All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has identified nine emerging areas in engineering in this academic year to cope up with the emerging industrial demands, as per Industry 4.0 standards, which requires smart systems development for better man machine interface. These areas are Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), Block Chain, Robotics, Quantum Computing, Data Science, Cyber Security, 3D Printing Design and Virtual Reality (VR). We are very proud to say that VESIT faculty and students have already been concentrating on these emerging areas and worked on 40 projects of Machine learning, 22 projects on Deep Learning, 32 projects on IoT, and 7 projects on Robotics during the last academic year.
We are also very happy to report that the project titled “New Hardware Methods for Extraction of Low Level Differential Signals over Wide Bandwidth with High CMRR and S/N Ratio” by Mrs. Nilima Warke, Instrumentation Dept. was selected by Nehru Science Centre as “Innovative Idea and Design Project”. VESIT is proud of our faculty members of VESIT Renaissance Cell who have developed need based technology solutions for the Institute such as Content Management System, RFID systems in library, Leaving Certificate module; Railway Concession Assistance software and Admission software teaching aid system by Electronics Dept. faculty. All these projects are indication of the capability of our staff to provide customized innovative solutions to real problems. We hope that the success of these projects will motivate other staff members to also concentrate in this direction. We are also proud of our faculty members who have filed patents for the research work.
We are happy to report that student teams from Computer and IT departments are working on projects in Artificial Intelligence (AI) for societal problems under the guidance of their Department teachers, using Compute Grants from Microsoft Azure worth 45,000 US Dollars. Computer Dept. also received a sponsorship of Rs. 75,000/- from Github for conducting technical hackathon and an event for women safety.
This year Dept. of Information Technology faculty proposed an IT based solution for operations and maintenance of community based toilets and Public Toilets in the city of Mumbai in collaboration with Community Based Organization (CBO) and MCGM. A research Project titled “Development of Methodology for Indian Evaluated Nuclear Data Library for Application in S & T” has received sanction of a total grant of Rs. 17.81 lakh from Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Govt. of India, based on recommendations of Board of Research in Nuclear Science (BRNS) with Dr. (Mrs.) J. M. Nair as Principal Investigator (PI) and Mrs. Sangeetha Prasanna Ram, as Co-PI.
Our institute has also been awarded a trophy by Mayor, Navi Mumbai for completing the river cleaning robot project sponsored by NMMC. This project was carried out by EXTC students under the guidance of Prof. Dr. Nadir Charniya.
Another feather in our cap was the four star rating for the Institute’s Innovation Council (IIC), the primary aim of which is to acquaint students with the importance of innovation. This year VESIT signed an MOU with Aditya Jyot Foundation for doing collaborative research work in the area of ophthalmology. Two project groups under the faculty members are already working in this direction. A lecture by Dr. Rich Fletcher, Research Scientist, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Design Labs, USA, on “Machine Learning and Healthcare” and a lecture by Dr. Srujama Cera, University of Melbourne on “Machine Learning for Biomedical Applications” was conducted in our institute in collaboration with Aditya Jyot for the benefit of students.
A 30 Hour Hackathon titled VESIT Hacks was conducted in Praxis’19-VESIT’s annual TechFest, was held on 22nd – 23rd September, 2019. The event conducted by VESIT Renaissance Cell was a huge success with participation of 285 students. Every year our students participate in the Smart India Hackathon conducted by AICTE. This year, four teams from VESIT have been selected for the final event to be held during the first week of the April.
The practical experience of working in innovative projects gives our students an extra edge over the other students. This has been reflected in placement records of the last academic year. JPMC offered 14 lakhs per annum to 25 of our students, followed by Nomura offering 11 lakhs per annum to four students. Just dial placed 10 students with a package of 7 lakhs while Interactive brokers offered 8.18 lakhs to three students. Other companies such as Teradata, General Mills, ISS-Institutional Shareholder Services, Indus Valley Partners, Car wale, MAQ software and TCS also offered salaries above 7 lakhs. In software sector, Capgemini, Accenture (FSE), Media.net, Quantifi, and LTI offered salaries between 6-7 lakhs and offered placements for approximately 100 students.
Last year, witnessed a huge increase in the pay package of core jobs in the instrumentation sector, almost matching with the software sector. Reliance Industries offered 7.5 Lakhs followed by Emerson offering 6.5 lakhs to 5 students, while Toyo engineering offered 5.3 lakhs. Students in instrumentation were offered core jobs in industries such as Johnson Controls, Worley parson, Tata Consulting Engineers, Techint engg. The Training & Placement team were able to place 53 % in core instrumentation jobs and 71% of eligible students have also been placed. Overall 78% of interested students were offered placements this year. We congratulate the placement team including student coordinators for doing an excellent job.
Our students fared very well in university exams this year. The pass percentage of last academic year 2018-19 of B.E. Electronics, Electronics and Telecommunication and Information Technology department has been 99.32, 96.85 and 100 respectively while B.E. Computer, Instrumentation and MCA secured 99.57%, 98.73% and 99% respectively.
Mr. Ashwin Pillai of Instrumentation dept. has been awarded the “2019 Educational Scholarship” from the International Society of Automation (ISA) amounting to a sum of USD 2000. He was one of the fourteen undergraduate students across the globe who received the prestigious award this year.
VESIT is a proud signatory of UNPRME, an United Nations supported initiative to raise the profile of sustainability among the colleges around the world. PRME’s vision is to play a key role in shaping the mindsets and skills of future leaders to work for an inclusive and sustainable global economy. VESIT as part of this, adopted five villages AMBISTE KH, AMGAN, APTI, ASNAS and GARGAON for their development in collaboration with district administration. This initiative is under the aegis of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan scheme promoted by AICTE. VESIT also conducted free eye camp for slum dwellers in the vicinity of college in association with Aditya Jyot Foundation for Twinkling Little Eyes (AJFFTE) this year.
We also take this opportunity to congratulate the staff members who have taken initiative to start free GATE coaching classes to our third year students from this academic year. We would also like to thank the students of Sports Council and staff members Mr. Prasad Godse and Mrs. Kajal Jewani for conducting Yoga and meditation Classes for our first year students.
Our alumni meet was held on 21st December, 2019. The distinguished Alumni award was received by Mr. Jayesh Kirange, Director of a Hedge Fund Administration and Consulting company SS&C Globeop, who has completed Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA by CFA Institute) and Financial Risk Manager (which is FRM by Global Association of Risk Professionals) after graduating from our institute.
The institute is now gearing up for NAAC accreditation and to start the new B.E. course in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science in the next academic year.
As we continue to work towards holistic education, we once again commit ourselves towards thoughts, words and deeds that help us to develop the responsible leaders of tomorrow
